---
topic: refrigeration
agent: script-writer
chapter: 05
chapter-title: "WAVE 4: Cold and the Sky"
feedback-addressed:
  - Ozone as collective action that WORKED (transcript, Jeff; 01 comments) → the chapter lands the optimistic beat with the verified dates and the first-ever universal ratification
  - "Why was no one following up on the NASA errors?" (Jeff, 01 comments) → Jeff asks it in his own words; Cyrus gives the accurate answer — flagged not deleted, siloes not stupidity — and declines the "NASA threw the data away" myth
  - Science as iteration, not failure — on DuPont's skepticism (Jeff, 01 comments) → the 1975 pledge is the artifact; the twenty days of March 1988 is the pledge kept; Jeff makes the point in his own register
  - Don't lean into "we could have prevented climate change" (Jeff, 01 notes) → the HFC encore is framed as scale turning a fix into a problem, not a lost opportunity
  - "Today's fix sows the seeds of tomorrow's problems," with scale as the mechanism (transcript, both) → the cumulative-account chemistry; the fourth fluid; the fifth fluid's water problem, hedged
  - Global spread fast in the U.S., then Europe, then very slow elsewhere; still not there (Cyrus, transcript) → verified curve: Japan, China, India (urban/rural split), rural sub-Saharan Africa; framed as delayed adoption, not resistance, in the Global South's own words
  - "AC uses more than Africa" held for the closing section in its defensible form only (Cyrus, 02 comments)
  - Historical empathy — Hodel's plan given its own logic before the "Rayban Plan" mockery; DuPont early-then-late, not corrupt
  - No production vocabulary; no echo handoffs
  - Research corrections applied: "the decision memo is in Reagan's own handwriting" (not "first head of state"); the 1975 pledge (not "nothing is settled"); Kigali 0.3–0.5°C; cooling gap "just over a billion — roughly one in eight"; Midgley's death stated, not adjudicated; McNeill wording without "adverse"; "two dozen nations" at Montreal; "almost unanimously" for the 1987 Senate resolution; "three senators"; the Rowland line as Joan recalled it; Japan 38% in 1964 / 89% in 1970; "the wrong channels had been read on the instrument"
editor-pass: 2026-09-13 (see editor-notes.md)
fact-check-pass: 2026-09-13 (see fact-check-report.md)
status: draft
date: 2026-09-13
---

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 4 - Cold and the Sky ---

JEFF: [reflective] November second, nineteen forty-four. Worthington, Ohio. Thomas Midgley is fifty-five. Four years earlier he'd caught polio — at fifty-one, which almost never happens — and it left him severely disabled. So, being an engineer, he designed a system of ropes and pulleys to lift himself out of bed. And that morning he was found strangled in it. Tangled in the harness he'd built.

CYRUS: [quietly] In his own machine.

JEFF: Yeah. He'd been elected president of the American Chemical Society that same year. He wrote his own epitaph in his last address to them: "This one did a lot of living in a mighty little while." He died believing he'd made the world safer twice — leaded gasoline, and Freon. And an environmental historian named J-R McNeill would later write that Midgley "had more impact on the atmosphere than any other single organism in earth history."

CYRUS: [exhales] That is a remarkable sentence to have written about you.

JEFF: [reflective] It is. And to understand why it's true, you have to jump thirty years, to a chemistry lab in Southern California.

CYRUS: [deliberate] So here's the question that nobody had asked in forty-five years of making this stuff. Where does it go? A molecule of Freon doesn't burn. Doesn't react with anything. Doesn't dissolve in water. That's the whole point of it — that's why Midgley blew out a candle with it. So when it leaks out of your fridge, or you spray it out of a can of hairspray, it just... stays. And in nineteen seventy-two, a chemistry professor at U-C Irvine named Sherwood Rowland — everybody called him Sherry — is at a meeting where he hears a British scientist named Jim Lovelock present measurements. Lovelock had gone looking for these molecules in the air and found them everywhere. At levels suggesting that essentially every molecule of the stuff ever made was still up there.

JEFF: [curious] All of it?

CYRUS: Essentially all of it. And Rowland's reaction was — his words — "I knew that such a molecule could not remain inert in the atmosphere forever." Something eventually breaks it. So he puts it on his list of possible projects for a new postdoc. And the postdoc who picks it is Mario Molina. Thirty years old, born in Mexico City, fresh Berkeley doctorate in chemical lasers. And he'd walked away from lasers on purpose — he wrote later that he was "dismayed by the fact that high-power chemical lasers were being developed elsewhere as weapons." He wanted to work on something useful. And off Rowland's list he picks the boring one: finding out the environmental fate of these very inert industrial chemicals. Where do they go.

JEFF: And how long does it take?

CYRUS: Three months. Molina's own line about it later was, "We really sort of stumbled onto a problem of global proportions." Here's the chemistry. In the lower atmosphere nothing touches these molecules, so they drift upward for years. Eventually they get above most of the ozone layer, into the stratosphere, where for the first time they meet ultraviolet light hard enough to knock a chlorine atom loose. And that chlorine atom hits an ozone molecule and breaks it — takes one of its oxygens. Then it hits a free oxygen atom and gives that oxygen back. And now the chlorine is exactly as it was. Ready to go again.

JEFF: [skeptical] Wait — so it's not used up?

CYRUS: No. It's a catalyst. That's the whole horror of it. The E-P-A's figure is that one chlorine atom can destroy over a hundred thousand ozone molecules before something finally removes it. And the paper's own estimate for how long a C-F-C molecule lasts in the atmosphere was forty to a hundred and fifty years. Which means the sky is a cumulative account. A few thousand Freon fridges in nineteen thirty-two never mattered. Eighty percent of American kitchens, plus every car air conditioner, plus every spray can, for forty years — that mattered, and the bill was still arriving decades after the last can.

JEFF: [quietly] Scale.

CYRUS: And that winter, Rowland comes home from the lab and — as his wife Joan later remembered it — tells her, "The work is going well, but it looks like the end of the world."

JEFF: [genuinely surprised] That's — he said that at the dinner table?

CYRUS: At home, to his wife. And Joan went through the house and threw out every spray can. That's the first policy response to ozone depletion. One woman, in a kitchen in Orange County, throwing out the hairspray.

JEFF: [laughs softly] And then the world catches up?

CYRUS: Slowly. They publish in Nature in June of nineteen seventy-four. That September, at the American Chemical Society, they call for a complete ban on releasing the stuff. Which was not what chemists did — you published and you stopped. Rowland's answer, years later, was: "Is it enough for a scientist simply to publish a paper? If not us, who? If not now, when?" And the response is — he doesn't get invited to give a talk for a decade. Industry is furious. DuPont's chairman calls the theory "a science fiction tale... utter nonsense."

JEFF: [reflective] And this is where I want to slow down, because I think it's easy to make DuPont the villain here, and I think that's the wrong read — at least in nineteen seventy-five. DuPont takes out a full-page ad. And the sentence in it that I think is the important one is this: "Should reputable evidence show that some fluorocarbons cause a health hazard through depletion of the ozone layer, we are prepared to stop production of the offending compounds." Now — in nineteen seventy-five, nobody had measured any ozone loss anywhere. The theory rested on lab rate constants and a model. The National Academy of Sciences looked at it in nineteen seventy-six, said the theory was probably right, and recommended waiting two more years for data before regulating. So DuPont's position was "show us the evidence." And that's not a lie. That's — honestly — what science is supposed to sound like.

CYRUS: [skeptical] Except they also spent the next decade lobbying against regulating it.

JEFF: Yeah, they did. And they were wrong about the trend. But here's the thing I keep coming back to on this: when science turns out to have been incomplete, people read that as science being wrong, or corrupt. And that's a fundamental misunderstanding of what science is. It's a continual iteration on incomplete information. "Too early to draw conclusions" wasn't a cop-out in nineteen seventy-five. It was accurate. The question is what you do when the evidence changes. And hold onto that pledge, because we're going to find out whether they kept it.

CYRUS: So here's who moved first, and it wasn't governments. Consumers. Before there was any ban at all, aerosol sales fell sharply. People just stopped buying spray cans. The industry, in the words of one historian, "feeling invulnerable, was not prepared for such a strong public and political reaction." And the structural reason it could happen so fast is that hairspray is nonessential and there was a pump bottle on the shelf right next to it. Substitutes on the shelf, right? Culture moved faster than regulation.

JEFF: And the regulation followed.

CYRUS: The United States banned nonessential aerosol C-F-Cs in nineteen seventy-eight — less than five years from the paper. Canada and the Scandinavians did the same. And then it stalled. Because a refrigerator is not hairspray. Nobody was going to give up the box, there was no substitute on the shelf, and the chemical industry argued — persuasively — that it needed time to develop one. And Europe balked. France and Britain were major producers, and they'd just watched the United States kill its own supersonic transport partly on ozone grounds and then fight Concorde's landing rights. So they suspected an American trick. One historian's phrase is that they saw it as "environmental neocolonialism."

JEFF: [reflective] Which, from where they sat, was not a crazy read.

CYRUS: No, it wasn't. And DuPont's position in nineteen seventy-nine was: "No ozone depletion has ever been detected." Which was true. So by March nineteen eighty-five you get the Vienna Convention — forty-three countries agree that the ozone layer is important and that they should do something, with no actual controls. A framework with nothing in it. And two months later, three men on an ice shelf publish a paper.

JEFF: [curious] This is your favorite part, isn't it.

CYRUS: [warmly] This is one of my favorite stories in the history of science. Okay. Halley Research Station. British Antarctic Survey. It's on the Brunt Ice Shelf, in Antarctica, and since nineteen fifty-seven a physicist named Joe Farman has been running an instrument there called a Dobson spectrophotometer — a nineteen twenties design — that measures how much ozone is in the column of air overhead. And I need you to understand why it was there. It was not there to look for ozone depletion. It was set up to help with weather forecasting. And in the early nineteen eighties, the Survey was looking for things to cut, and the Halley ozone program was — Shanklin's phrase — "in the frame to be cut." Nothing seemed to be changing. Why keep paying for it?

JEFF: Who's Shanklin?

CYRUS: Jonathan Shanklin. In nineteen seventy-seven, the Survey posts a job ad: "Wanted: physicist with an interest in meteorology and programming skills." And he answers it, fresh out of Cambridge. And he writes later, "I had no background in meteorology, and no preconceived ideas of how the atmosphere behaved." His job is to clear a backlog. The Dobson readings were on handwritten sheets, and until then converting them into ozone numbers meant slide rules and log tables. So there's a decade of sheets nobody's processed. He supervises the digitizing and writes the code. And — his words — "By chance, the backlog covered the crucial decade when ozone levels began to drop."

JEFF: [reflective] Nobody's looking for it.

CYRUS: And this is the part. In nineteen eighty-three the Survey has a public open day, and Shanklin is asked to help because he has a teaching qualification. And the newspapers at the time are full of stories about spray cans and Concorde destroying the ozone layer. So he decides to make a graph to reassure the public. To show that the ozone over Halley that year is no different from twenty years earlier. And the graph does show that — overall. But he writes, "it seemed that the springtime values did look lower from one year to the next." His own line about it now is, "Being an ignorant physicist, I thought this unlikely."

JEFF: [laughs softly] He's trying to calm everybody down, and the data won't let him.

CYRUS: And there's no eureka. He says that explicitly — "there was no real eureka moment in the discovery, more a combination of pieces falling into place." The theory said springtime Antarctic values were noisy, weather-dependent, don't read anything into them. Farman himself thought the instrument must be broken — until a replacement Dobson gave the same numbers. Shanklin, looking back on it recently: "The problem was the points were starting to fall off the top of the graph. Quite unusual in science, really." What finally convinced them was a plot of the lowest eleven-day average for each spring, which showed the decline was systematic. Farman worked out the chemistry connecting it to C-F-Cs. Brian Gardiner did the data quality. And they publish in Nature in May of nineteen eighty-five. Springtime ozone over Antarctica down about forty percent from the nineteen seventies. Where the models had predicted a few percent, globally, maybe.

JEFF: Okay — so here's the question I actually wrote down when I read this, because I've seen the version of this story where NASA's satellite had been seeing the hole for years and the software was throwing the data away. Is that true? And if it is — why was nobody following up on all those errors?

CYRUS: [deliberate] So I chased this, because I'd heard that version too, and it's the kind of story that's too good. Here's what actually happened. NASA's satellite instrument did have a quality flag — any reading below a certain level got flagged as probably out of calibration. Flagged. Not deleted. The data was all still there. And in August of nineteen eighty-four, the team at Goddard processing the October eighty-three data noticed a huge spike in flagged readings over Antarctica, and they investigated. The obvious check was to compare against the ground readings from the South Pole station — and that ground data turned out to be bad, because the wrong channels had been read on the instrument. Meanwhile the rest of the world looked normal. So they had a puzzle they couldn't confirm. By December eighty-four they were confident enough to submit an abstract to a conference for the following August. And Farman's paper came out in May.

JEFF: [amused] So they were more than a year behind three guys with an instrument designed in the nineteen twenties.

CYRUS: And no theory to protect — that's the real difference. The guy who wrote the best account of this called it "a tale of poor communications and siloed researchers." Siloes, not stupidity. And NASA then confirmed it — bigger. Their satellite map in nineteen eighty-six showed the hole was the size of a continent. Meanwhile Shanklin, after that nineteen eighty-three open day, had written a letter to the satellite data center asking whether they were seeing low values too. And I love his line about it: "I never received a reply — perhaps another lucky break for our team."

JEFF: [amused] Nobody on the satellite side answered the mail.

CYRUS: And one more piece, because it answers the obvious question — why Antarctica? Susan Solomon, a thirty-year-old chemist at NOAA, worked out in nineteen eighty-six that the answer was the clouds. Polar stratospheric clouds form only in the extreme cold of the Antarctic winter, and chemistry on the surface of those ice particles converts the "safe," stored forms of chlorine into the active form. So when the sun comes back in spring, the chlorine is primed and it goes through the ozone like a scythe. She led the expedition to McMurdo to measure it, and found chlorine oxide a hundred times higher than expected. Shanklin's own line about all this is that "it is humbling to think that industry across the world has had to change because of what seemed to be a small discovery over an obscure part of Antarctic."

JEFF: [reflective] And then it moves fast. Which is the part I find genuinely astonishing. Because two years — two years — after that paper, there's a treaty. And it very nearly wasn't a strong one. Spring of nineteen eighty-seven, inside the Reagan administration, there's a revolt. Interior, Commerce, Energy, the budget office — they want a freeze on production and nothing more. And the Interior Secretary, Donald Hodel, floats what he calls a "personal protection plan." Instead of a treaty — hats. Sunglasses. Sunscreen.

CYRUS: [incredulous] He said that out loud? In a cabinet meeting?

JEFF: Now — I want to give him his due for one second, because adaptation is a real policy category, and his economists weren't wrong that a fifty-percent cut would cost money. But the L-A Times gets hold of it in May, and the press christens it the "Rayban Plan," and it dies on the dread test. Nobody wants to be told the sky is the problem and the answer is a hat. And the other side had a number — the E-P-A's own worst-case model, assuming no controls and sixty more years of growth, projected well over a hundred million extra skin cancers in the United States alone. That's a model, not a forecast. But it's the world the hat was supposed to fix. The Senate passes a resolution for a fifty-percent cut almost unanimously. And the Secretary of State, George Shultz, takes it to Reagan directly. And on June twenty-fifth, nineteen eighty-seven, Reagan decides. Freeze at nineteen eighty-six levels, twenty-percent cut, then a further thirty-percent cut. Against four of his own cabinet departments.

CYRUS: [curious] Do we know why?

JEFF: We know the decision memo is in Reagan's own handwriting. Beyond that — he'd had skin cancer cut off his nose twice, in eighty-five and eighty-seven, and historians have wondered whether that mattered. Nobody in the room wrote it down. But he did it. September sixteenth, nineteen eighty-seven, two dozen nations sign the Montreal Protocol. Europe came along in part because they feared American trade sanctions if they didn't. Reagan later called it "a model of cooperation... a monumental achievement." And in two thousand nine the Montreal Protocol became the first treaty in the history of the United Nations to be ratified by every single country on earth.

CYRUS: [deliberate] Which has never happened for anything else. And Shanklin — of all people — has the best analysis of why that worked, and I want to read it, because it's a scientist, not a pundit. He says the manufacturers were "able and willing, after some initial resistance, to produce substitutes." The evidence was clear. "The hole sounded threatening." There was a link to cancer. And then this: "the public did not feel bullied or threatened — no one was telling them to radically change their way of life. There was a problem, and something could be done about it." And elsewhere he puts it even more simply: with the ozone hole, "you could show politicians a picture."

JEFF: And that last one is the whole game. Nobody had to give up their refrigerator. Nobody had to change how they lived. The fix asked nothing of you. And the other piece — no substitute, no treaty. DuPont had said in eighty-six that alternatives could be ready within five years, given the right market conditions. And the treaty was the market condition. It created the demand for the substitute. Which is a genuinely elegant thing — a regulation that makes the market for the thing that makes the regulation possible.

CYRUS: And now your pledge.

JEFF: [amused] Now my pledge. March of nineteen eighty-eight. Twenty days that I think are one of the best corporate stories I know. March fourth: DuPont's chairman, Richard Heckert, writes to three senators — quote — "scientific evidence does not point to the need for dramatic C-F-C emission reductions." March fifteenth: a NASA panel — the Ozone Trends Panel, an international team of scientists — reports that it's not just Antarctica. Ozone over the northern mid-latitudes — where the people live — is down two to three percent since nineteen sixty-nine, up to six percent in winter, and it cannot be explained by anything natural. Where the models had said essentially zero.

CYRUS: And DuPont has a guy on that panel.

JEFF: [mischievously] They do. Mack McFarland, their own atmospheric scientist — the only industry scientist on it. He's read the draft. And he tells the company the link is now real. March twenty-fourth — nine days later — DuPont, the world's largest producer of C-F-Cs, announces it will phase them out entirely. Total phase-out. Twenty days from "the evidence doesn't point to the need" to "we're getting out of the business."

CYRUS: [genuinely surprised] Nine days after the report? That's not a corporate timeline. That's a memo.

JEFF: And here's why I love it. That's not a confession. That's an update. The nineteen seventy-five pledge — "should reputable evidence show, we are prepared to stop production" — they kept it, on the first day the evidence was reputable enough for their own scientist. Thirteen years late by one reading; exactly on time by another. And then they sold the substitutes. Creative destruction, run inside one company, in one corporate calendar.

CYRUS: [deliberate] And the substitutes are where the pattern comes back. Because the replacement — the fourth fluid, H-F-C one-thirty-four-a — was designed to break down before it reaches the stratosphere. No chlorine, no ozone problem. Solved. It's just that it's a greenhouse gas fourteen hundred times as powerful as carbon dioxide. Now — a home fridge holds only a few ounces. One leak is nothing. But hundreds of millions of boxes and cars and supermarket racks, leaking a few percent a year, for decades — that's a climate line item. Scale, again.

JEFF: [laughs softly] Of course it is.

CYRUS: So in October two thousand sixteen, in Kigali, Rwanda, a hundred and ninety-seven countries amend the Montreal Protocol to phase down the replacement. And the scientific assessment says that amendment alone is expected to avoid somewhere between a third and half a degree Celsius of warming by twenty-one hundred. A treaty about what's inside your refrigerator is one of the largest single climate actions anyone has ever taken. And it ran on the ozone treaty's machinery, because that machinery worked. The U-S Senate ratified it in twenty twenty-two, sixty-nine to twenty-seven.

JEFF: [genuinely surprised] Sixty-nine votes. I did not expect that.

CYRUS: Neither did I. And here's where the fluids have landed. A new home refrigerator today runs on isobutane. Which is flammable — so the safety standard caps the charge at a hundred and fifty grams, a few ounces — and which is one of the fluids Freon displaced in the nineteen thirties. Supermarkets are going to carbon dioxide, at very high pressure. And industrial cold storage never left ammonia. Linde's fluid, a hundred and fifty years on. Four fluids in a century — and the fourth one is the first one.

JEFF: [reflective] And the sky?

CYRUS: Healing. Slowly. The C-F-Cs are gone — phased out in the rich world by ninety-six, everywhere by twenty-ten. The ozone layer is projected to be back to nineteen eighty levels around twenty-forty globally, and over Antarctica around twenty sixty-six. Which is after most of the people listening to this are dead. And it's not tidy — the latest assessment found emissions of one by-product gas, HFC-twenty-three, running up to eight times higher than expected, and somebody had to go find out where an outlawed C-F-C was still coming from. But Shanklin's line is that "perhaps the most startling lesson from the ozone hole is just how quickly our planet can change." In both directions.

JEFF: So there's one more thing I want to put on the table before we step back, because I think it's the thing we'd be most embarrassed to skip. Everything we've described is the rich world. America, Europe, Japan. Where's everybody else?

CYRUS: [deliberate] So this is the part I keep coming back to. If you picture the map filling in with color — the United States goes from one home in twelve to four in five between nineteen thirty and nineteen fifty. Then Europe, a generation later. Then Japan, which is incredible: one home in ten in nineteen sixty, nine in ten by nineteen seventy. America's twenty-year curve, run in ten. Then China's cities — single digits in the mid-eighties, nine in ten by the late two thousands. And then it slows way down. India today is about thirty-eight percent — but that's sixty-three percent in the cities and twenty-five percent in the villages. India's cities are where America was in nineteen fifty; its villages are where America was in nineteen thirty-five. And rural sub-Saharan Africa is at about four percent.

JEFF: [incredulous] Four?

CYRUS: Four homes in a hundred with a refrigerator. And the aid organizations put it this way: just over a billion people — roughly one in eight — are at high risk from lacking access to cooling. And I want to say that carefully, because "a billion" sounds like hype. It means no reliable cold for food, for medicine, or for your body, in a hot place. Not "no fridge." And nobody is resisting cold. This is not resistance. It's the same gates America hit in the nineteen thirties — price, a wire to the house, financing — a century later.

JEFF: And I'd add that it's their framing, not ours. India's government wrote the first national cooling plan in the world, in twenty nineteen, and the phrase it uses is that cooling is "a developmental need." The Nigerian who runs the U-N's sustainable-energy effort puts it more bluntly: cooling is "a make-or-break issue" for development.

CYRUS: Which is their word, not an aid agency's. And the Kigali schedule encodes that, by the way — India and the Gulf states don't have to finish phasing down until twenty forty-seven, because the rich world built its cold on Freon first. So — a billion people are where New York's tenements were in nineteen hundred. Their governments call cold a developmental need. Montreal worked. Kigali is the encore. And the machine in your kitchen has been through four fluids in a hundred years.

JEFF: [reflective] Four fluids. And every single one of them was the safe one, the day it was chosen.

[MUSIC: transition-bumper]
