---
topic: refrigeration
agent: script-writer
chapter: 04
chapter-title: Cold Comes Home
status: draft
date: 2026-03-10
---

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - Cold Comes Home ---

JEFF: Okay, so here's where this story becomes about you and me. Not in the abstract "technology shapes society" way — I mean literally about the appliance in your kitchen right now. This is the wave where refrigeration stops being something that happens in factories and warehouses and starts happening in people's homes.

CYRUS: Which sounds like it should have been easy. Like, you've already done the hard part — you've got mechanical refrigeration working. Just... make it smaller.

JEFF: Yeah, I thought the same thing. And the answer is: it was not easy. Not even a little bit. Because it turns out that the refrigerants that worked great in big industrial systems were, in some cases, genuinely terrifying in a residential setting. We're talking about chemicals that could leak out of your refrigerator overnight and kill your whole family in their sleep.

CYRUS: Wait, what?

JEFF: I am not being dramatic. This actually happened.

CYRUS: Okay. Walk me through this.

JEFF: So the refrigerants that were in use in the nineteen twenties — ammonia, methyl chloride, sulfur dioxide — all of them worked on the basic principle we covered in the last wave. But here's the thing: in a brewery or a meatpacking plant, if a pipe blows, you've got workers who notice it and get out. In a house at two in the morning, you're asleep. And methyl chloride in particular is nearly colorless. Nearly odorless. You would never know it was leaking until it was too late.

CYRUS: That is a terrifying design flaw for something you're supposed to keep in your kitchen.

JEFF: Right? And the incidents were real. Cincinnati in nineteen twenty — ammonia fumes from a butcher shop's ice machine force the evacuation of an entire city block. Nineteen twenty-eight — a packing company leak, firefighters in gas masks. Chicago, August of nineteen twenty-nine — methyl chloride deaths that send the whole industry into a panic. In Berlin, an entire family is killed by fumes leaking from their home refrigerator overnight. The story makes the newspapers.

CYRUS: So people knew. This wasn't hidden.

JEFF: This was very publicly known. And here's the behavioral tell that I just love as a data point: families who could afford early refrigerators — and these things cost between three hundred and five hundred and twenty-five dollars, so we're talking about a significant purchase — those families were putting their refrigerators in the backyard. On the back porch. In an outbuilding. Because they didn't trust them inside the house.

CYRUS: [laughs] That is the most honest product review I've ever heard. "Five stars — do not put inside."

JEFF: Right? Like, I paid five hundred dollars for this, and I'm keeping it at a safe distance from my children. That's the state of the market in the late nineteen twenties. And it is — I want to be clear — that is not irrational. That is a completely reasonable response to a genuine danger. These people weren't paranoid; they were correct.

CYRUS: So the industry has a credibility problem.

JEFF: The industry has a credibility problem and a chemistry problem, and they're the same problem. And into this moment walks Thomas Midgley Junior.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - The Breakthrough: Midgley's Demonstration ---

JEFF: Okay, Cyrus. I want to tell you about one specific moment, because I think this might be the most consequential chemistry demonstration in history. And I mean that — I'm not reaching for a superlative. This one demonstration changed what ended up in your kitchen. And it did it in about sixty seconds.

CYRUS: I'm listening.

JEFF: It's April nineteen thirty. The American Chemical Society is meeting in Atlanta, Georgia. Thomas Midgley Junior takes the stage. He's already famous — not entirely for good reasons. He's the man who gave the world leaded gasoline. He'd actually suffered lead poisoning himself during that work. So this is a guy who has a complicated relationship with the chemistry of unintended consequences.

CYRUS: The resume does not inspire confidence.

JEFF: [laughs] No, it does not. But here's what he does. He comes on stage carrying two things: a small vial, and a candle. He lights the candle. Then he pours the contents of the vial — this is a new chemical compound his team developed, chlorofluorocarbon, which he's calling Freon — he heats it to a boil. And then, in front of the entire assembled American Chemical Society, he takes a deep breath of the vapor.

CYRUS: He just... inhales it. On stage.

JEFF: He inhales it on stage. The whole room is watching. If this chemical is toxic, Midgley is about to collapse. He doesn't collapse. He exhales — directly onto the candle flame. And the flame goes out.

CYRUS: [quietly] Oh, that's good theater.

JEFF: In one breath, he's proved two things simultaneously. Non-toxic — he just breathed it and he's fine. Non-flammable — he just used it to put out fire. No member of that audience can now argue that Freon is dangerous to have in your house.

CYRUS: That's a killer demo. Like, that is genuinely a killer demo.

JEFF: It is! And the thing is — it worked. Not just rhetorically. The chemistry was real. Freon really was non-toxic. It really was non-flammable. It was a genuine solution to a genuine problem. GM and DuPont immediately set up a joint venture called Kinetic Chemicals to manufacture and market CFCs. Within five years, manufacturers using Freon sell more than eight million new refrigerators nationally. Eight million. The adoption explosion begins with one breath.

CYRUS: So the safety problem was solved.

JEFF: The immediate safety problem was solved. And I need to plant something here that we'll come back to, because you already know where this goes. The ozone layer. Freon's safety was real — but what no one knew in nineteen thirty was that chlorofluorocarbons, once released into the atmosphere, float all the way up to the stratosphere and destroy ozone molecules. A historian will later call Midgley "the most environmentally destructive person who ever lived" — a man who had, quote, "more impact on the atmosphere than any other single organism in Earth's history."

CYRUS: Two catastrophic inventions. Leaded gasoline and Freon.

JEFF: One man. And he never knew about either one. He dies in nineteen forty-four — and we'll get to his death, which is its own remarkable story — never knowing that either of his most celebrated inventions would prove catastrophic. The ozone hole isn't confirmed until nineteen eighty-five. The Montreal Protocol isn't signed until nineteen eighty-seven. Midgley is long gone.

CYRUS: That is a genuinely strange kind of tragedy. He solved the problem and destroyed something he couldn't see.

JEFF: That's almost exactly the right framing. He solved the problem you could see — families terrified of their own appliances — and he destroyed something invisible. And we are going to sit with that irony when we get to the Built In section, because I think it's the heart of this whole story.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - Midgley's Death and Einstein's Refrigerator ---

JEFF: Now, I promised you Midgley's death. Because it is — and I say this with genuine respect for the man — it is among the more grimly poetic endings in the history of invention.

CYRUS: Okay, you've set up my expectations very specifically.

JEFF: In nineteen forty, Midgley contracts polio. He's severely disabled. And being the engineer that he is, he invents an elaborate system of ropes and pulleys to help himself get in and out of bed. Very clever. Very ingenious. On November second, nineteen forty-four, he is found dead, entangled in his own pulley system — strangled. He's fifty-five years old. The coroner ruled it a suicide, though people who knew him were divided, and history has tended to describe it as an accident. I'll leave that ambiguity in place, because I think it belongs there.

CYRUS: [pause] A man known for inventing things that unexpectedly killed people... is killed by his own invention. One way or another.

JEFF: I didn't write this. This is just what happened.

CYRUS: That's dark.

JEFF: It is dark. And here's the thing that gives me pause whenever I tell stories like this — and I think it's worth saying. Midgley was genuinely brilliant. He was trying to solve real problems. Leaded gasoline was an effort to prevent engine knock. Freon was an effort to stop families from dying in their sleep. The unintended consequences were catastrophic, but the intentions were not bad. I think there's something important in that.

CYRUS: Yeah, I actually appreciate you saying that. It's easy to make him a villain in retrospect. But he didn't know. Nobody knew.

JEFF: And while Midgley was doing his Freon work, do you know who else was trying to solve the same toxic refrigerant problem? From a completely different angle?

CYRUS: I genuinely do not.

JEFF: Albert Einstein.

CYRUS: [pause] Sorry. Albert Einstein was... working on refrigerators?

JEFF: Albert Einstein and his former student Leo Szilard spent eight years designing a safer refrigerator. Their motivation: Einstein had read a newspaper report about a Berlin family killed by toxic refrigerant fumes leaking from their home refrigerator. He was so disturbed by it that he contacted Szilard and the two of them began designing an alternative. Their idea was a refrigerator with no moving parts — which meant no compressor, no seals, nothing to leak. They used water, ammonia, and butane with an electromagnetic pump. They got a US patent — patent number one million, seven hundred eighty-one thousand, five hundred forty-one — on November eleventh, nineteen thirty.

CYRUS: The same year as the Freon demo.

JEFF: Same year. And you know what? Their design worked. It was less efficient, but it was inherently more reliable. Nothing to break. Nothing to leak. But by the time the patent came through, Freon had already solved the problem chemically, and the Einstein-Szilard refrigerator never found a commercial market.

CYRUS: So Einstein invented a refrigerator that the world didn't need because someone else solved the problem differently.

JEFF: Right. And here's the strange postscript — in two thousand and eight, Oxford University engineers revived the Einstein-Szilard design for potential use in off-grid developing-world applications. A refrigerator that works without electricity, with no toxic chemicals, with no moving parts. Nearly a hundred years later, it might finally find its purpose.

CYRUS: That is a wild sentence. "Einstein's refrigerator might finally be useful in twenty-oh-eight."

JEFF: Science history has some incredible timing.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - The Resistance: Cold-Storage Banquet (1911) ---

JEFF: Okay. So now we have Freon. We have a safe refrigerant. The mechanical problems are solved. Prices are coming down — the GE Monitor Top launched in nineteen twenty-seven at about five hundred and twenty-five dollars, and by nineteen forty you could get a comparable refrigerator for a hundred and fifty-two dollars. The utility companies are even offering ten-dollar-a-month installment plans added right to your electric bill. All the friction is being removed.

CYRUS: So adoption should explode.

JEFF: Adoption does explode. But before we get to the numbers, I want to spend some time on the resistance. Because it wasn't just about chemistry. There was a deeper problem — a psychological barrier — that had been building for decades before any of this. And to understand it, I need to take you back to October twenty-third, nineteen eleven. Chicago. The Hotel Sherman.

CYRUS: All right.

JEFF: Now, here's the setup. By nineteen eleven, cold storage warehouses are everywhere. The industrial refrigeration wave is in full swing. But the public has a serious trust problem with refrigerated food. Upton Sinclair's The Jungle came out in nineteen oh-six, and it shattered public confidence in the food industry. Newspapers are running alarming stories about year-old food being sold as fresh. Congress is considering strict limits on how long food can be kept in cold storage. The entire cold-storage industry is facing an existential crisis.

CYRUS: The industry that brought you modern food safety... is in a trust crisis about food safety.

JEFF: Which is genuinely ironic. So the National Poultry, Butter, and Egg Association decides to fight back with a spectacle. They invite four hundred guests — including Chicago's mayor and the city's health commissioner — to a formal dinner at the Hotel Sherman. The Louis XVI room. And every single item on the menu has been cold-stored. Some for months.

CYRUS: Wait, every item?

JEFF: Everything but, reportedly, the olives in the dry martinis was refrigerated. Including — and this is the detail I could not stop thinking about — a capon that had reportedly been killed on Valentine's Day. The dinner is in October. That's nine months.

CYRUS: [pause] They served them a nine-month-old chicken.

JEFF: At a formal banquet. To the mayor of Chicago. And here's how the host of the evening addresses the crowd. He praises them for showing — his exact words — "considerable courage in the face of all that has been written in the newspapers" about cold-stored food.

CYRUS: So the industry knows the food requires courage to eat. And they're saying so out loud at the dinner.

JEFF: To the people eating it. Yes.

CYRUS: [laughs] That is peak nineteen eleven energy.

JEFF: Now, the guests eat everything. Nobody gets sick. The banquet is declared a success. But the press is not won over. The Chicago Inter Ocean runs a scathing op-ed the next day. And one newspaper publishes what I think is one of the most darkly funny sentences about technological adoption I've ever read. Quote: "The one silver lining is that soon everyone who can remember what food is supposed to taste like, pre-refrigeration, will be dead."

CYRUS: Whoa.

JEFF: Right? That's the newspaper saying: the only way to win the trust battle is to wait for the skeptics to die.

CYRUS: And that is kind of what happened. That's the actual mechanism of adoption sometimes.

JEFF: That is sometimes the actual mechanism. And I want to stay with the resistance here for a second, because I think it deserves more credit than it usually gets. These consumers who didn't trust cold-stored food — they weren't being irrational. This was an era when Upton Sinclair had just exposed genuine fraud in the food industry. The question they were asking — "does cold equal fresh, or does cold just mean you can't tell it's old?" — that is a completely reasonable question. And the industry, frankly, was not always answering it honestly.

CYRUS: The Milnor Electric Company ad.

JEFF: You read the research.

CYRUS: "Harmless, odorless and non-poisonous." Referring to methyl chloride. In nineteen twenty-three.

JEFF: An industry that had lied about refrigerant safety was asking the public to trust it about food safety. And people were skeptical. That skepticism had real reasons behind it. I think it's easy to look back and say, "oh, they were just afraid of change." They were afraid of being lied to. Again. That's different.

CYRUS: A hundred percent. And by the way, the iceman persists well into the nineteen forties in a lot of American cities. This isn't a fringe group holding on. It's a large part of the market.

JEFF: Still going to the iceman in the forties. Out of habit, loyalty, and yes — some genuine distrust of the new system. Ice delivery persisted because the iceman was part of the neighborhood. He came every day. He was a fixture of community life. There was even a song — "How'd You Like to Be the Iceman?" — from eighteen ninety-nine, capturing the cultural role. When the iceman disappears, something social disappears with him. That's a real loss, not just nostalgia.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - The Adoption Explosion and Depression Paradox ---

JEFF: Okay, but adoption does happen. And the numbers are extraordinary. In nineteen thirty, eight percent of American homes have a refrigerator. Eight percent. By nineteen forty, it's fifty-six percent. By nineteen forty-four, eighty-five percent. In roughly fifteen years, refrigerators go from a luxury item to being nearly universal.

CYRUS: That's a remarkable curve. And this is happening... during the Great Depression?

JEFF: During the Great Depression. And here's the counterintuitive thing — this is the part I could not wrap my head around at first. The Depression paradoxically accelerated adoption. In the worst economic crisis in American history, families bought expensive appliances.

CYRUS: How does that work? Like, what's the actual mechanism?

JEFF: I think the way to think about it is this: a refrigerator pays for itself. If you're living through the Depression and you cannot afford to throw away spoiled food — and nobody could — then an appliance that prevents spoilage is not a luxury. It's economic rationality. Manufacturers cut prices to move inventory. The utility companies are offering ten dollars a month. And families figure out that the fridge reduces their grocery bill enough to justify the payment.

CYRUS: So the Depression creates exactly the customer who most needs a refrigerator. A family that cannot afford waste.

JEFF: Exactly. The Depression creates the customer who most needs a refrigerator. Prices drop from five hundred dollars to two hundred dollars to a hundred and fifty-two dollars by nineteen forty. General Electric had committed eighteen million dollars to manufacturing alone, and another million to advertising. And the ad copy from GE in nineteen twenty-eight is interesting — "The gift that simplifies housekeeping and safeguards health." Both benefits. Practical and emotional.

CYRUS: That's smart positioning, actually. You're not just selling convenience. You're selling safety for your family.

JEFF: And specifically for your children. A lot of the advertising is pitched directly at that concern. Which — in an era before antibiotics, when infant mortality was still high and contaminated milk was a real killer — that is not a frivolous pitch. The refrigerator really did make children safer. The data on infant mortality tracks directly with clean, cold milk.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - Anchor Story: Frederick McKinley Jones ---

JEFF: Okay. So by the late nineteen thirties, refrigeration has conquered the American home. But here's the gap. Here's the thing that's still broken. You have refrigerators in people's kitchens. You have refrigerated warehouses. But the thing connecting them — the truck — doesn't have refrigeration. If you want to ship chickens from St. Paul, Minnesota, to Chicago, you pack them in ice and salt and you hope. If it's a long trip, or a hot day, or the ice runs out... the shipment spoils. Total loss.

CYRUS: So the cold chain has a gap in the middle.

JEFF: The cold chain has a gap in the middle. And the person who closes it — the person who makes the cold chain continuous from farm to store — is someone whose name I had genuinely never heard before researching this episode. And I think that's part of the story I want to tell. Because his biography is extraordinary.

CYRUS: Who are we talking about?

JEFF: Frederick McKinley Jones. Born May seventeenth, eighteen ninety-three, in Covington, Kentucky. His father was an Irish railroad worker, his mother was African American, and she left when Jones was very young. His father struggled to raise him alone and eventually, when Jones was around seven years old, sent him to be raised by a Catholic priest named Father Ryan at a rectory in Cincinnati. His father died when Jones was nine. He was an orphan, being raised by a Catholic priest, with a sixth-grade education.

CYRUS: That is a very specific kind of hard start.

JEFF: And here's what he does with it. He leaves school at eleven. Gets a job as a cleaning boy at a garage in Cincinnati. Gets promoted to mechanic's helper. By the time he's fourteen, he's the shop foreman. At nineteen, he's described as "one of the most well-known racers in the Great Lakes region." He's not just working on cars — he's racing them. At nineteen.

CYRUS: Self-taught mechanic, racing cars at nineteen. Okay.

JEFF: He moves to Hallock, Minnesota in nineteen twelve. Works as a mechanic, as a farmhand. Serves in World War One as a sergeant — in France, he rewires his entire camp for electricity, telephone, and telegraph. After the war, comes back to Hallock. Teaches himself electronics. Builds a radio transmitter for the town. During Minnesota winters, he drives physicians on house calls through conditions that probably should have been unpassable, and invents a motorized snow machine using airplane parts.

CYRUS: He just... teaches himself everything. Over and over.

JEFF: Every time there's a problem in front of him, he learns what he needs to learn to solve it. There's no other way to describe it. And eventually — in the late nineteen twenties or around nineteen thirty, sources differ a little on the exact date — he goes to Minneapolis to apply for a job at Ultraphone Sound Systems, a company run by a man named Joseph Numero. And the receptionist looks at him and says — and these are the documented words — "We don't have any jobs for a colored boy."

CYRUS: [quietly] Right.

JEFF: Jones somehow gets past that, gets to Numero, and Numero hires him. And what Jones does at Ultraphone is extraordinary: he takes silent-movie projectors — which are obsolete because sound film is taking over — and he converts them into talking projectors using scrap materials. He essentially invents solutions to problems that shouldn't be solvable with the parts he has. He and Numero become a team.

CYRUS: So Numero knows exactly what he has in Jones.

JEFF: He knows. And then — and this is the moment — it's nineteen thirty-eight. Joseph Numero is on a golf course with a friend who is in the trucking business. The friend is venting. He lost a shipment of chickens on a run from St. Paul to Chicago. Total loss. The ice and salt couldn't keep them cold for the whole trip. And Numero — I love this about him — Numero makes a bet. Reportedly six dollars. He says: "I have an engineer who can solve that problem in thirty days."

CYRUS: He bets six dollars. On his engineer. Against the laws of physics.

JEFF: [laughs] Against the laws of refrigeration, essentially. And he goes back to his shop and tells Jones about the bet. And here's what Jones does. He goes to the library. He teaches himself refrigeration. From scratch. In a matter of weeks, he designs the Thermo Control Model A — a portable, automatic, truck-mounted refrigeration unit.

CYRUS: Wait. He just... learned refrigeration and then built a truck refrigeration unit? In weeks?

JEFF: In weeks. And I want to be honest — the Model A is a first version. It works, but Jones keeps refining it. The Model C, completed in nineteen forty-one, is the one that becomes the industry standard. Compact. Lightweight. And crucially: shockproof. Because every previous attempt at truck refrigeration had the same problem — road vibrations destroyed the equipment. Jones solved it by drawing on his experience with cinema sound equipment, which also had to handle vibration. He already knew how to build things that could take a beating and keep working.

CYRUS: He applied his movie projector knowledge to refrigerated trucks.

JEFF: Cross-domain engineering from an engineer with no formal training. And it works. Jones and Numero co-found the U.S. Thermo Control Company — later renamed Thermo King — in nineteen thirty-eight. Jones is vice president. The patent on the truck refrigeration unit is granted July twelfth, nineteen forty. And then World War Two starts.

CYRUS: Oh, that timing.

JEFF: The technology that started as a solution for spoiled chickens gets drafted. During World War Two, Jones's refrigeration units are used to preserve blood plasma, medicine, and food for troops in the field. The thing he built to keep a truckload of chickens cold between St. Paul and Chicago is now keeping blood plasma cold on a battlefield.

CYRUS: [pause] That's a real thing. That saves lives.

JEFF: That saves lives. Real, specific, countable lives. And in nineteen forty-four — same year Midgley dies strangled in his own pulley system, I want to say that timing out loud because it deserves to be said — in nineteen forty-four, Frederick McKinley Jones becomes the first African American elected to the American Society of Refrigeration Engineers. In an era of pervasive racial segregation, a self-taught Black orphan from Kentucky is elected to the professional engineering society of the industry he reshaped.

CYRUS: And how many people have heard of him?

JEFF: That's the question. He holds sixty-one patents. Forty of them are for refrigeration. He also invents portable X-ray machines and an automatic ticket-dispensing machine that he sells to RCA. He dies on February twenty-first, nineteen sixty-one, at sixty-seven years old. Thermo King by then is a three million dollar business, and it will become a global leader in transport refrigeration worth orders of magnitude more.

CYRUS: And the recognition?

JEFF: Posthumous. In nineteen ninety-one — thirty years after his death — President George H.W. Bush awards him the National Medal of Technology. First Black American to receive it. The president presents it to Jones's widow and to Numero's widow in a ceremony at the White House Rose Garden.

CYRUS: Thirty years after he died.

JEFF: Thirty years after he died. And I want to say something about the survivorship bias here, because I always try to be honest about this. Jones's story is remarkable — and it is remarkable. But it's also true that for every Frederick McKinley Jones who overcomes every obstacle and dies a celebrated inventor, there are many, many people who faced the same obstacles and didn't get the break, or didn't get the partner, or didn't get the particular moment when the right person was on the right golf course making the right bet. Jones's genius is real. His persistence is real. And so is the pile of structural obstacles that took down other equally brilliant people who never got past a receptionist.

CYRUS: I think that's right. And it actually makes his story more interesting, not less. It's not a fable. It's a specific confluence of things — genius, timing, Numero, the war — that could have gone differently.

JEFF: At multiple moments. The six-dollar bet. Getting past the receptionist. The war creating a military application. Any one of those doesn't happen and you don't get Thermo King.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - What Changed ---

JEFF: So. What changed. Let me walk through it.

The iceman vanishes. Not immediately — ice delivery hangs on into the nineteen forties in many cities. But by the nineteen fifties, it's effectively gone. Ninety thousand ice-harvesting jobs plus uncounted delivery jobs — an entire profession that had existed for over a century — disappears within roughly one generation.

CYRUS: And it takes something social with it. The iceman was a fixture. He came every day. People knew him.

JEFF: He came every day. He knew which families had kids. He knew the back entrance. For a lot of women who were homemakers, the iceman was one of the regular points of contact with the outside world. When he disappears, something genuinely human goes away. Ice delivery was a service, but it was also a relationship.

CYRUS: The housework paradox you mentioned in the research. The refrigerator is supposed to liberate women from daily shopping, but—

JEFF: But what actually happens is that as technology removes some of the burden, expectations rise. Weekly shopping replaces daily shopping — that's real. But now women are expected to prepare more elaborate meals, offer greater variety, maintain higher standards. The time saved by the refrigerator gets absorbed by rising standards for what dinner is supposed to look like.

CYRUS: The technology enables more, and then "more" becomes the expectation.

JEFF: It's the same dynamic you see with email. It was supposed to save time. But now the expectation is that you respond to everything within hours. The technology that saves time creates the expectation that fills the time. I think there's a real principle in there that we should come back to in the Built In section.

CYRUS: Agreed. What else changed?

JEFF: Seasonal eating basically ends. Before refrigeration, what you ate in January was determined by what was storable — root vegetables, preserved meats, pickles, fermented things. After refrigeration, "fresh" becomes the default and the old food traditions — pickling, curing, fermenting — start to decline. They're still practiced, but they shift from necessity to hobby. Nobody's making sauerkraut because they have to anymore. They're making it because they want to.

CYRUS: Which is a kind of loss, even if the refrigerator is genuinely better at keeping food safe.

JEFF: There's a thread there worth pulling. And then there's the supermarket. Because Frederick McKinley Jones's truck refrigeration doesn't just keep food cold — it makes it possible to build the modern food supply chain. If you can refrigerate a truck, you can ship fresh meat from a processing plant in Kansas to a grocery store in Philadelphia. You can have strawberries in December. You can have the entire grocery store as we know it.

CYRUS: The supermarket only works if the whole chain is cold.

JEFF: Exactly. And Clarence Birdseye, who'd been watching Inuit fishermen flash-freeze fish in Labrador back in nineteen twelve and spent the next decade figuring out how to replicate it commercially — he'd already sold his frozen food company for twenty-two million dollars in nineteen twenty-nine. The frozen food aisle is waiting. Jones builds the truck that stocks it.

CYRUS: So the supermarket is the endgame. The whole infrastructure converges in the grocery store.

JEFF: And by the nineteen fifties, that infrastructure is essentially complete. Refrigerated trucks, refrigerated warehouses, refrigerated display cases in stores, refrigerators in homes. The cold chain is continuous from farm to fork. And sitting invisibly at the center of all of it, molecule by molecule accumulating in the stratosphere, is Freon.

CYRUS: The thing that made all of it safe enough to happen.

JEFF: The thing that made all of it safe enough to happen. And we'll come back to what that cost.

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Wave 3 - Road Not Taken ---

JEFF: One last thing before we hand this off to the Built In section. I want to spend a minute on the road not taken. Because in the nineteen thirties, there were actually two different solutions to the toxic refrigerant problem on the table. Midgley's chemical solution — Freon — and Einstein and Szilard's mechanical solution. No moving parts, no seals, no toxic chemicals, but also no CFCs.

CYRUS: And Freon won because it was more efficient.

JEFF: Freon won because it was more efficient, and because it arrived right as the market was ready to explode, and because GM and DuPont were behind it with enormous resources. The Einstein-Szilard fridge was better on reliability. It was worse on efficiency. In nineteen thirty, when electricity is cheap and the ozone layer is not a known concern, efficiency wins.

CYRUS: If you knew in nineteen thirty what you knew in nineteen eighty-five — about the ozone hole — you might make a different bet.

JEFF: You almost certainly make a different bet. The Montreal Protocol happens eventually, and CFCs get phased out. But by then, billions of units have been running for decades. The ozone hole over Antarctica is real and measurable. It is the largest-scale unintended consequence in the history of consumer technology, I would argue. And it starts with one man taking a breath on stage in Atlanta in April nineteen thirty.

CYRUS: The road not taken being the no-moving-parts refrigerator from the guy who also invented the atomic bomb concept... that's a very specific road.

JEFF: [laughs] The roads available in nineteen thirty were unusual, yes. But the choice between them shaped the next fifty years of atmospheric chemistry. And that is not an exaggeration.

CYRUS: Okay. I think we need to step back and look at the full arc of this thing.

JEFF: We do. From Frederic Tudor in eighteen oh-six to Frederick McKinley Jones in nineteen forty-one to Freon silently accumulating through the nineteen fifties, sixties, seventies, and eighties — that is a story that is still playing out. Let's bring it home.

[MUSIC: transition-bumper]

--- SEGMENT BREAK: Built In - The Big Picture ---
